{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww20640\viewh12980\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 PLOTTING INSTRUCTIONS\ulnone \
\
1. Config Setup\
\
	Inside the folder named PLOTTING, there are three config files:\
		\
		config_template.json \'97> empty config template. You can copy/paste this if you want an empty config file.\
		config_sample.json \'97> example config file filled out.\
		config.json \'97> default config file that the plotting program looks for.\
\
	You can edit config.json to set up each plot.\
\
	Inside the config file, there are data parameters:\
	\
		type \'97> \'93fold\'94 or \'93avg\'94, which dataset to plot\
		control \'97> \'93SM-HA\'94 or \'93SM-IgG\'94, the control group\
		sample \'97> \'93SAMPLE-NAME\'94, the sample name (case-sensitive and dash-sensitive). \
		chromosomes \'97> a list of chromosomes to plot. Names must be within \'93\'94 quotation marks \
					and separated by commas. Must be inside [] brackets. \
		subsamples \'97>  a list of subsampling numbers out of [1, 2, 3, 5]. \
					Must be inside brackets. Should NOT be in quotes. \
\
	There are also plot parameters:\
		\
		filename \'97> name of saved image file. Must be given in \'93\'94 quotes. \
				You have to append the extension, e.g. .png / .tiff / .jpeg. \
		plot_title \'97> title of plot. Must be given in \'93\'94 quotes. \
		cutoff_point \'97> lower limit of y-axis. Must be given as a number, NOT in quotations. \
		cutoff_data \'97> true or false (lowercase), NOT in quotations. \
				true only plots 3-in-a-row bins that are > cutoff_point. \
				false will plot all data. \
		y_limit \'97> top limit to the y-axis. Can be given as a number OR as null, NOT in quotes. \
				If null, the plot will automatically scale to fit all plotted data. \
				The program will automatically print out the maximum fold enrichment in the current plot,\
				which can be referenced when adjusting the y axis limit. \
		\
		figure_size \'97> size of the figure in inches, given as a list of numbers, NOT in quotes.\
		dpi \'97> dots per inch for saved file. Must be given as a number, NOT in quotes.\
		plot_title_fontsize \'97> font size for plot tile. Must be given as a number, NOT in quotes. \
\
		spacing \'97> spaces between each chromosome. This should be adjusted as you add \
				more/less chromosomes to the figure. Must be given as an integer, NOT in quotes. \
		\
		marker \'97> marker type. Different markers can be found at \
				https://matplotlib.org/stable/api/markers_api.html . Must be given in quotes.\
		marker_size \'97> size of marker. Must be given as a number, NOT in quotes.\
		colors \'97> list of colors, matched to different subsamples. Must give the same number \
				of colors as number of subsamples. Colors given in quotes, \
				separated by commas, all inside [] brackets. More colors can be found at \
				https://matplotlib.org/stable/gallery/color/named_colors.html .\
		\
		gene_arrows \'97> true or false (lowercase), NOT in quotes. Whether or not to plot gene arrows.\
		chr_start_end_lines \'97> true or false (lowercase), NOT in quotes. Whether or not to show\
				lines beneath the x-axis for the start and end of each chromosome. \
	\
		chr_name_rotate \'97> number between 0 and 90, NOT in quotes. Rotation of the chromosome\
				 names, 0 is horizontal and 90 is vertical.  \
		chr_name_fontsize \'97> fontsize for chromosome names.\
		y_label_fontsize \'97> fontsize for y-axis label.\
		legend_fontsize \'97> fontsize for legend. \
\
\
2. Running the Plot Script\
\
To run the plot script, open Terminal and navigate inside the PLOTTING folder. \
The simplest way to run the script is to enter the following command:\
\
	python plot.py -s\
\
This will read the \'93config.json\'94 file, save the image and config file inside the plots folder, and open the plot image in python.\
Make sure to update the filename parameter in config, otherwise the existing file will be saved over without warning. \
\
\
3. Script Options\
\
There are four optional inputs to the program:\
\
	python plot.py -c [config_file] -s -q -i\
\
\
-c [config_file] lets you specify a different input config file by path. For example:\
\
	python plot.py -c my_other_config.json\
\
This will read the config file named my_other_config.json instead of reading config.json. \
\
\
-s specifies whether or not to save the image. If you omit -s, you can generate a plot without saving it.\
\
\
-q specifies \'93quiet\'94, whether or not to print out information while plotting. For example:\
\
	python plot.py -q\
\
This command will read config.json and open up an image without saving, but you won\'92t get any info printed to the terminal. \
\
\
-i specifies \'93invisible\'94, whether or not to open the image in python after plotting. For example:\
\
	python plot.py -s -i\
\
This command will read config.json and save the plot image in the plots folder, but it won\'92t automatically pop up for you to see. \
\
\
\
\
\
			}